---
title: Set Up Dimensions
author: edupont04
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 09/22/2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms-prod: dynamics-nav-2017
ms.translationtype: Human Translation
ms.sourcegitcommit: 51adfb3588099c496f0946ff71da5c6fe518f070
ms.openlocfilehash: 18237c4b755926222a36bc97dec5d6783c11454d
ms.contentlocale: en-au
ms.lasthandoff: 06/26/2017

---

# <a name="set-up-dimensions"></a><span data-ttu-id="5373e-102">Set Up Dimensions</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-102">Set Up Dimensions</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="5373e-103">You must define which dimensions and dimension values you want to use in your company.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-103">You must define which dimensions and dimension values you want to use in your company.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-104">You should also define which dimensions you wish to use as global and shortcut dimensions.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-104">You should also define which dimensions you wish to use as global and shortcut dimensions.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-105">You should consider carefully which dimensions will be most effective as global and shortcut dimensions for your company.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-105">You should consider carefully which dimensions will be most effective as global and shortcut dimensions for your company.</span></span>  
<span data-ttu-id="5373e-106">You set up all of the different dimensions that you want to track in the **Dimensions** window.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-106">You set up all of the different dimensions that you want to track in the **Dimensions** window.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-107">The Dimensions window contains one line for each dimension, such as *Project*, *Department*, *Area*, and *Salesperson*.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-107">The Dimensions window contains one line for each dimension, such as *Project*, *Department*, *Area*, and *Salesperson*.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="5373e-108">For each dimension, you must also set up the dimension values, such as all of the departments in your company.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-108">For each dimension, you must also set up the dimension values, such as all of the departments in your company.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-109">Dimension values can be set up in a hierarchical structure similar to the chart of accounts, so that data can be broken down into various levels of granularity, and subsets of dimension values can be totalled.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-109">Dimension values can be set up in a hierarchical structure similar to the chart of accounts, so that data can be broken down into various levels of granularity, and subsets of dimension values can be totaled.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="5373e-110">You can specify two global dimensions that will automatically be available everywhere, for example on reports and batch jobs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-110">You can specify two global dimensions that will automatically be available everywhere, for example on reports and batch jobs.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-111">You can also specify six additional shortcut dimensions that will be available as a field on journal and document lines.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-111">You can also specify six additional shortcut dimensions that will be available as a field on journal and document lines.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-112">The remaining dimensions can be used by accessing a separate window that displays dimensions for the line.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-112">The remaining dimensions can be used by accessing a separate window that displays dimensions for the line.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="5373e-113">You can define as many dimensions as you need in your company, and you can define an unlimited number of dimension values for each dimension.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-113">You can define as many dimensions as you need in your company, and you can define an unlimited number of dimension values for each dimension.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-114">All dimensions defined by you can be used on entries in journals and documents, as well as in dimensions-related reports and batch jobs.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-114">All dimensions defined by you can be used on entries in journals and documents, as well as in dimensions-related reports and batch jobs.</span></span>  

## <a name="set-up-default-dimensions-for-customers-vendors-and-other-accounts"></a><span data-ttu-id="5373e-115">Set Up Default Dimensions for Customers, Vendors, and Other Accounts</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-115">Set Up Default Dimensions for Customers, Vendors, and Other Accounts</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="5373e-116">You can set up a default dimension for a specific individual account.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-116">You can set up a default dimension for a specific individual account.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-117">This code is then copied to the journal or document when the account number field is filled in on the line.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-117">This code is then copied to the journal or document when the account number field is filled in on the line.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-118">However, you may delete or change the code if appropriate.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-118">However, you may delete or change the code if appropriate.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-119">You can also make a dimension required, so that it is not possible to post an entry with a specific type of account unless the account has a dimension value assigned to it.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-119">You can also make a dimension required, so that it is not possible to post an entry with a specific type of account unless the account has a dimension value assigned to it.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="5373e-120">Furthermore, you can set up a default dimension for each type of account so that this code is copied to the journal or document when the account type is filled in on the line.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-120">Furthermore, you can set up a default dimension for each type of account so that this code is copied to the journal or document when the account type is filled in on the line.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="5373e-121">However, you can always change the code on the document if relevant.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-121">However, you can always change the code on the document if relevant.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="5373e-122">Finally, you can also make a dimension required, so that it is not possible to post an entry with a specific type of account unless the account has a dimension value assigned to it.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-122">Finally, you can also make a dimension required, so that it is not possible to post an entry with a specific type of account unless the account has a dimension value assigned to it.</span></span>

## <a name="see-also"></a><span data-ttu-id="5373e-123">See Also</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-123">See Also</span></span>
[<span data-ttu-id="5373e-124">Dimensions</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-124">Dimensions</span></span>](finance-setup-dimensions.md)  
[<span data-ttu-id="5373e-125">Set Up Core Financial Processes</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="5373e-125">Set Up Core Financial Processes</span></span>](finance-setup-setup-finance-setup.md)

