---
title: Dimensions
author: edupont04
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 09/22/2016
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms-prod: dynamics-nav-2017
ms.translationtype: Human Translation
ms.sourcegitcommit: 51adfb3588099c496f0946ff71da5c6fe518f070
ms.openlocfilehash: a1b38e74717e87bea6efb46f8f4e5236b6ec4e64
ms.contentlocale: en-au
ms.lasthandoff: 06/26/2017

---

#<a name="dimensions"></a><span data-ttu-id="65852-102">Dimensions</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-102">Dimensions</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="65852-103">Dimensions are data that you add to entries to categorise them for analysis.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-103">Dimensions are data that you add to entries to categorize them for analysis.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-104">For example, you can have dimensions that indicate which project or department an entry originates from.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-104">For example, you can have dimensions that indicate which project or department an entry originates from.</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="65852-105">Then you can use dimensions instead of setting up separate general ledger accounts for each department and project.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-105">Then you can use dimensions instead of setting up separate general ledger accounts for each department and project.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-106">This allows you to have rich analysis information in your data without having to use a complicated chart of accounts.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-106">This allows you to have rich analysis information in your data without having to use a complicated chart of accounts.</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="65852-107">You can define an unlimited number of dimensions with an unlimited number of dimension values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-107">You can define an unlimited number of dimensions with an unlimited number of dimension values.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="65852-108">For example, you set up a dimension called *Department*, and you use this dimension and a dimension value when you post sales documents.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-108">For example, you set up a dimension called *Department*, and you use this dimension and a dimension value when you post sales documents.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-109">Then, you can later get business intelligence data on which items have been sold by which departments, for example.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-109">Then, you can later get business intelligence data on which items have been sold by which departments, for example.</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="65852-110">The more dimensions you set up and use, the more detailed reports you can base your business decisions on.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-110">The more dimensions you set up and use, the more detailed reports you can base your business decisions on.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-111">For example, a single sales entry can include multiple dimension information about which account the item sale has been posted to, where the item was sold, who sold it, and what kind of customer made the purchase.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-111">For example, a single sales entry can include multiple dimension information about which account the item sale has been posted to, where the item was sold, who sold it, and what kind of customer made the purchase.</span></span>  

## <a name="using-dimensions"></a><span data-ttu-id="65852-112">Using dimensions</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-112">Using dimensions</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="65852-113">In a document such as a sales order, you can add dimension information for both an individual document line and the document itself.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-113">In a document such as a sales order, you can add dimension information for both an individual document line and the document itself.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-114">For example, in the **Sales Order** window, you can enter dimension values for the first two shortcut dimensions directly on the document, and you can add further dimension information if you choose the **Dimensions** button.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-114">For example, in the **Sales Order** window, you can enter dimension values for the first two shortcut dimensions directly on the document, and you can add further dimension information if you choose the **Dimensions** button.</span></span>  
<span data-ttu-id="65852-115">In you work in a journal instead, you can also add dimension information to an entry in the same way, if you have set up shortcut dimensions as fields directly on journal lines.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-115">In you work in a journal instead, you can also add dimension information to an entry in the same way, if you have set up shortcut dimensions as fields directly on journal lines.</span></span>  
<span data-ttu-id="65852-116">You can set up default dimensions for accounts or account types, so that dimensions and dimension values are filled in automatically.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-116">You can set up default dimensions for accounts or account types, so that dimensions and dimension values are filled in automatically.</span></span>  

## <a name="dimension-sets"></a><span data-ttu-id="65852-117">Dimension sets</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-117">Dimension sets</span></span>
<span data-ttu-id="65852-118">A dimension set is a unique combination of dimension values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-118">A dimension set is a unique combination of dimension values.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-119">It is stored as dimension set entries in the database.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-119">It is stored as dimension set entries in the database.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-120">Each dimension set entry represents a single dimension value.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-120">Each dimension set entry represents a single dimension value.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-121">The dimension set is identified by a common dimension set ID that is assigned to each dimension set entry that belongs to the dimension set.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-121">The dimension set is identified by a common dimension set ID that is assigned to each dimension set entry that belongs to the dimension set.</span></span>  

<span data-ttu-id="65852-122">When you create a new journal line, document header, or document line, you can specify a combination of dimension values.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-122">When you create a new journal line, document header, or document line, you can specify a combination of dimension values.</span></span> <span data-ttu-id="65852-123">Instead of explicitly storing each dimension value in the database, a dimension set ID is assigned to the journal line, document header, or document line to specify the dimension set.</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-123">Instead of explicitly storing each dimension value in the database, a dimension set ID is assigned to the journal line, document header, or document line to specify the dimension set.</span></span>  

## <a name="see-also"></a><span data-ttu-id="65852-124">See Also</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-124">See Also</span></span>
[<span data-ttu-id="65852-125">Finance</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-125">Finance</span></span>](finance-setup.md)  
[<span data-ttu-id="65852-126">Set Up Dimensions</span><span class="sxs-lookup"><span data-stu-id="65852-126">Set Up Dimensions</span></span>](finance-setup-setup-dimensions.md)  

